# 12N-2FA-QR-Project
Public filesource for 12N 2FA Secure QR Standard Senior Project as part of the requirements for the Bachelors in Cybersecurity from the Oregon Institute of Technology. The repository contains a proof of concept application which aims to generate, encode, and encrypt 12N QR codes with an included buisness ID code to be authenticated against a server

Scannable media is becoming increasingly useful in today's digitally-intertwined marketplaces and organizations. Utilizing physical media to direct online interactions allows organizations to create accessible content portals for the public. This capability will only continue growing in value as more devices become internet connected, and cameras more prevalent. Invented in 1994 by the Denso Wave corporation, the current ISO/IEC DIS 18004:2023 QR standard is an evolution of the original concept for two-dimensional barcodes. The aim of this project is to introduce security controls for QR scannable media, by utilizing the updated 12N QR standard’s security features and enhanced data capabilities. 
Problem Identification
The identified issue which this project aims to resolve is an inherent vulnerability within the current ISO/DEC DIS QR standard. The vulnerability lies in the physical nature of pasted codes, which are susceptible to attackers physically pasting malicious or fraudulent media over legitimate scannable media. Users are particularly vulnerable to this attack vector due to the opaque nature of QR codes embedded media. This attack vector has been identified as problematic and actively exploited for over a decade, while still being identified by the FBI as a source of fraud as recently as 2021 (FBI Portland, 2021; A. Zimmerman, WSJ, 2006). During review of the Journal of Information Systems Applied Research, an article titled “QR Code Hacking - Detecting Multiple Vulnerabilities in Android Scanning Software” details the following attack vector (Homan & Breese, 2023): 

1. The hacker uses the correct QR code to access a restaurant’s menu.
2. The menu is copied and duplicated on a different website.
3. A new QR code is created that directs the scanning software to the fake website.
4. The new QR code is pasted over the restaurant’s QR code at the table.
5. The diner scans the QR code and sees the menu on the fake website.
6. The malicious site uses HTML, SQL, or data injection to infect the smartphone and download personal data like contacts, calendar events, email, etc.
7. The user orders their meal completely unaware that they have been phished
This attack vector exemplifies the type of fraud and phishing attacks that this project aims to prevent. This attack vectors significance is reinforced through the article “QR Code Security -- How Secure and Usable Apps Can Protect Users Against Malicious QR Codes” recommendations to scannable media developers, which proposes: 

	“the integration of digital signatures in the QR code standardization to verify the origin of a code check for modifications. The overall idea is to derive a checksum (e.g. SHA-512) and encode it together with the content. The checksum is stored at an online trusted authority. When decoding the QR code, the QR code reader uses the checksum to verify the originator of the code with the trusted authority. A color indication or any other graphical representation should then indicate if verification was successful. To include digital signatures, QR code readers should be adapted to verify and display the result to the user, similar to SSL. For protecting the user against malicious URLs, checking the validity of HTTPS certificates would be an easy-to- implement measure” (Krombholz et al., 2015). 

In Ron Lembke’s (Chair of Reverse Logistics Association and inventor of 12N QR standard) research paper titled “Reducing Cybersecurity Vulnerabilities Through the Use of 12N QR Codes”, he states “for greater security, asymmetric public key encryption may be used on any or all of the data in a 12N code. Additionally, private key encryption may also be applied to any data in the 12N code. Thus 12N codes provide the user with the ability to provide literally any information they desire to their users in a very compact form, with any level of security and encryption that they desire” (Carnovale & Yeniyurt, 2021). This promotes the 12N QR standard as a suitable platform for implementing scannable media security controls. During a private discussion with Ron Lembke and Ken Jacobsen (Chair & Co-Chair of RLA), they confirmed these suspicions. 

Finally, current scannable media applications have not implemented similar or similarly comprehensive solutions to the identified vulnerability. Cybersecurity industry leaders like Sophos, Kaspersky, and Norton have developed their own secure scannable media applications, which only implement embedded URL scanning against private databases as additional controls (Sophos Mobile Security, 2023; Norton Community, 2019; Kaspersky, 2023). These systems lack the comprehensive approach which is necessary to resolve such an inherent vulnerability. Overall, a review of literature surrounding inherent vulnerabilities in scannable media concurs with my proposed solution and implementation of the 12N QR standard. 
Proposed Solution

To protect against identified scannable media vulnerabilities, I propose implementing the solution recommended by Krombholz et al. within the newly developed 12N QR standard. The implementation would utilize the 12N standards variable and encrypted fields to host selected media and checksums for third party verification by an online trusted authority. These checksums contain information and certificates authenticating the scannable media and displaying business information to prospective users. Users who scan unsupported or unauthorized codes are warned beforehand, and provided increased information about the embedded URL. This solution aims to prevent users from accessing malicious or fraudulent sites unknowingly due to the aforementioned opaque nature of embedded QR media. 
